## Open Weather Map Notes

[edited 20140415]

1. This morning the computer showed that the full run of 11731 US locations ran last night for 7891 seconds = about 2:10 hours, a rate of one site (downloaded and saved to disk) of about 1.5 seconds per location. It ran from 22:15 to 00:27. No files are smaller than 4K; all appear to be filled with JSON data and the expected number were received. A second run was begun this morning at 9:15 a.m. (9846 seconds). A third run was done at 12:15 (9342 seconds) and a fourth at 16:28 (7486 seconds). 

1. Next goals are 

  2. to decide how to visualize the data and 
  2. to begin preparing to store the data in the database and archive it afterwards.

1. Can use `ast.literal_eval()` to evaluate dictionaries stored as text in text files. This enables us to avoid the dangerous `eval()` function. If the content of the file is a dictionary, it should work correctly:

        In [15]: s = '{"a": "b"}'
        
        In [16]: eval(s)
        Out[16]: {'a': 'b'}
        
        In [17]: ast.literal_eval(s)
        Out[17]: {'a': 'b'}
        
        In [18]: type(eval(s))
        Out[18]: dict
        
        In [19]: type(ast.literal_eval(s))
        Out[19]: dict

1. Added code to `utils.make_urlrequest()` so that HTTP errors report the actual URL being attempted.

1. Added code to `utils.make_urlrequest()` so that each 100 downloads the screen is updated with number and percentage done.

1. Other tasks completed, from letter to Gina Schmalzle:

  1. I have completed and manually tested a function `tar_directory`, which finds any suitably named subdirectories in DOWNLOADS/ and compresses them (=> .tar.bz2) into a directory COMPRESSED/, after which it deletes the originals. For now I've made a duplicate copy of DOWNLOADS/ so that we don't accidentally lose anything.

    The new function does something slightly dangerous: it moves around among directories from within the Python code. This isn't ideal, but it was the only obvious way to get some things working.

    At some point I need to get to work on a proper test suite for dangerous functions like this, but all that can wait till the main part of the project is better underway.

    In the mean time, I think the new function is well commented, so please do read it and let me know if anything is unclear.

  2. I have renamed the older function `open_download_values` to `open_directory` in the few places where it occurs, since the new name better reflects the effect of the function. This affects the incomplete function `retrieve_data_vals` that you have been working on.

  3. I had enormous trouble getting this, as well as the bz2 and other compression modules that I tried, to work. Eventually I realized that the problem was Ipython! which seems to have a bug affecting `reload()` and `dreload()`. So I am not using those now — when I need to reload, I quit Ipython and then start it again and import what I need from scratch. A nuisance, but I lost several hours of work before I realized that the problem was Ipython and not me.

[end]
