## Open Weather Map Notes 20140416

[edited 20140416]

1. Learned from NOAA that historical forecast records are served at SRRS.

  2. GUI: http://has.ncdc.noaa.gov/pls/plhas/HAS.FileAppSelect?datasetname=9957ANX
  2. SRRS documentation: http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/documentlibrary/tddoc/td9949.pdf
  2. SRRS resource description: http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/documentlibrary/surface-doc.html#9957

   Our NOAA contact, asked about API availability, says:
   
   > There is none.  This data is usually requested by customers looking for a specific date or two for forecasts or watches/warnings issued or by the NWS for plane craft accident data.
   
   We will see if using the Web-GUI we can't construct our own API-calls.

1. Revised `utils_gs20140415.retrieve_data_vals` by separating out `process_dir` and `populate_db_w_forecasts`, but this process is not yet finished:

  2. `populate_db_w_forecasts` is not yet written;
  2. data structure to be returned by `retrieve_data_vals` is not yet decided — perh. `forecast_dict` will contain many pairs consisting of `id#: [(a, b, c, d), ...]` (4-tuples in a list).

1. Wrote `utils_gs20140415_rev0416.check_dt_uniformity_01` to report the set of initial `dt` values found in all files in one directory. Result: not all files in a given download-date have the same initial `dt` value. Two cases:

  2. in the three download-sets done between 16:30 and 01:00, there are eight initial `dt` values (ranging from 12:00-19:00, all on the same calendar day);
  2. in the two download-sets done around noon, there are ten or eleven `dt` values ranging over more than twenty-four hours
  
   We think the latter situation may be the result of two partially incomplete datasets being combined in a single set of query results. Probably we should conduct our queries between 16:30 and 01:00, or some comparable range of times.

1. Wrote `utils_gs20140415_rev0416.check_dt_uniformity_02` to report the hour (only) of all `dt` values in each file in each directory. We found that all `dt` values in a given file have the same hour, regardless of the calendar day of the value.

1. Information from Andrea Fey about NOAA's Nomad and THREDD/LAS materials, as well as about weather forecasting models. We will defer studying these for now, however.


[end]
