## Weather Underground Notes

[edited 20140413]

1. Planning thoughts send by DPB to GS:

> As for the central question of how we share a database, I have these thoughts:
> 
>     A. We can both keep a copy of the database on our local computers; my 
>     machine-wide `.gitignore` file excludes `.db` files from being pushed to 
>     the repository in any case. We would update our copies of the database 
>     separately, but we could share retrieved data and all code.
>
>     B. The real question is how to share retrieved data, since we're perhaps 
>     not supposed to let our repo serve as a data source for other users — were 
>     we to do so, we would then be redistributing the data, something I think 
>     we're not supposed to do. As I read Section 3 "Conditions & Restrictions", 
>     Subsection (d), of the Terms and Conditions 
>     (http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/d/terms.html), that is forbidden: 
>
>>     "You will not resell, sublicense, redistribute or provide access to the 
>>     API to any third party, including, without limitation, by incorporating 
>>     API access into chipsets of any kind."
>
>     C. Instead, I see the following options:
>         i. We could store the data in a private repository and each insert it 
>         into the db on our separate instances running on own machines. GitHub 
>         charges for that, but Bitbucket does not. We could keep everything 
>
>         except the data on GitHub. That would be simplest.
>         ii. We could set up a server somewhere else on which to store the data 
>         and the database. However, the problem of backing it up to a 
>         repository is not really resolved by this solution.
>
>         iii. We could store the data publicly but in encrypted form in the 
>         repo, using a tool such as PyCrypto 
>         (https://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/) or one of the many 
>         competitors available through `pip`. That would be less simple but it 
>         would give us exposure to an additional tool of interest.
>
>         iv. We could each set up `cron` jobs to download the data on our own 
>         system. That seems to me inefficient and not worth considering for 
>         now.



[end]
