## Record of work 20140414

[edited 20140414]

### Working on Open Weather Map data

1. Changed `.git/config` file inside `TO_DO_list_Gist_10594788/` to allow push/pull via SSH rather than HTTP.

1. It does not appear that `bbox` can be used in forecasts. Queried:

        http://openweathermap.org/data/2.5/forecast/daily?bbox=12,32,15,37,10&cluster=yes

  Reply:

        {"message":"","cod":"404"} 

1. Wrote to info@OpenWeatherMap.org to ask what "mode=daily_compact" means.

1. Data limitations (according to http://openweathermap.org/price):

  2. Up to 30K/minute and 40M/day ( < 28K/minute)
  2. License: "Creative Commons (cc-by-sa)" — attribution and share-alike. See summary at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/ (accessed 20140414).

1. Option for storing data via third-party: Dropbox. Python tutorial at https://www.dropbox.com/developers/datastore/tutorial/python.

1. Features for study: 

  2. `temp.min`
  2. `temp.max`
  2. `rain` (when present)

1. Locations for study: We will choose some subset, U.S. only to start. Task: enter city list into database and then select points for study based on Country and Lat./Long.

1. SQL script to create database. Database has two tables: 

  2. `locations`: id, name, lat, long, country
  2. `owm_values`: id, location.id, target_date (Unix dt); observed data-points, data-points for each forecasting date (16 in all). See `POPULATE_DB/DB_SCRIPTS/create_weather_OWM_db.sql` for details.

1. Database successfully populated with all locations and associated data.

1. Converted `populate_db_w_city_codes()` to use `connection` as context manager; now crashes do not lock the database.

1. Wrote `get_city_codes()` to retrieve city codes (only) for US or for all locations, depending on arguments. Also using context manager.

1. Wrote `full_forecast_download()` to download full 15-day forecast for all locations in US as default and save each response to unique file in unique, time-stamped directory. Goals: to see if we can get through the full 11K corpus in one run, and to see whether a run at c. 22:00 retrieves data identical to the data the next morning with the same query. Also added timing code to this function. Tested on ten locations: times at 4 seconds for ten items.

1. Must remember to put OWM's license on site, since their data is now appearing in our repo.

[end]
